how to make B2B marketing Drive growth
[Music]
F welcome back to a fresh episode of
Breaking bb.com I'm your host Sam
Dunning and if you want to join
thousands of Legends enjoying past
podcast episodes we want to try out our
weekday newsletter with B2B marketing
tips
or if you want to apply to work with us
head over to Breaking B2B
docomo by Johnny Butler we're going to
be diving into all things what you
should focus on building a marketing
system a marketing engine from zero how
you can put in those foundations to
drive some growth the right tactics that
you should be focusing on spending your
cash and resources on and what you
should avoid as well as some key tips
and learnings Johnny welcome to the show
sir how's it going thanks thanks very
much you're having me good to be here
really good no worries man to give some
context Johnny is the head of marketing
over at oneup sales so Johnny looking
forward to the
chat first things for first we never
mess around on this show we always dive
straight into the topic so when it comes
to a B2B business be a tech be outside
of tech service based when you're
getting brought on as the first
marketing
higher how the hell do you decide on
what you should prioritize
I mean that's a it's a great question
and it's it's a massive question is it
because um typically there's so many
things you can do um and there's there's
so many priorities in place um so I like
to think that you can kind of go through
almost a list of things that you need to
take off that that kind of help you
figure out what you need to prioritize
um probably first things first I'd say
before you even get to that point um is
you want to align with your C your CEO
your senior leadership team on
expectations before you've even kind of
figured out what to prioritize um and I
would say importantly you should
probably do that before you even start
like as a kind of new leader um in kind
of kind of a firstand leader in a new
new business because you want to
evaluate that you you've got alignment
with your CEO and your SLT before you
even started so during like an interview
process um that's probably the first
thing you want to do to make sure that
you're going to actually be able to go
in and do a job that's realistic and you
think you can achieve because I think a
lot of times you like particularly
firsttime CEOs when they when they built
own business they don't fully understand
marketing you got to make sure you got
alignment they before you even kind of
put yourself in that
position when you say
alignment what do you mean
exactly I that's a good question I think
there's a certain amount of alignment
then there's also this certain amount of
like can you work with this person or or
or do you feel like they get marketing
and you're going to be able to work with
them and Achieve what they want to
achieve um and are there expectations of
marketing real estate so I'll give you
an example um uh you kind of mentioned I
started at one of sales where I am just
last last summer um so I was kind of
interviewing for a few a few like head
of marketing of VP marketing roles last
summer spoke to a couple different CEOs
like typically these were all um roles
with uh like early stage startups like
30 40 people and like like early stage
lotten time first time CEOs um speaking
to a few of them I remember speaking to
one and and when I was speaking about
marketing we were talking about putting
in place demand generation strategies
and things like content and one of the
first things they said was well we'll
just get AI to do all our content and
like for me that's like that's a massive
red flag because if you think that you
like you know that this C probably got
the wrong perception of marking right
away like you're going to be a very very
different kind of expectations as soon
as you come to that role working
something like that gotcha gotcha so
understanding where they're at with
marketing and I suppose I suppose it's a
good sign like if we're talking about
that they brought on you as their first
marketing hire they're making a step in
the right direction you'd hope but have
you ever been involved because I think
this might be useful you've only got to
scroll the feed on LinkedIn and you'll
see some generic post from some
marketers saying you need to work for a
CEO that actually quote unquote gets
marketing but I'm sure there's like so
many ends of the spectrum right CEOs
that they need it to drive growth cosos
that are perhaps more sales driven or
they've driven growth before from other
strategies like how do you deal with
that when per the exact team aren't on
aren't as as marketing driven I think
100% it's a really good point and and I
and I don't think like saying you need
to have alignment with the the C I think
it doesn't mean that they need to get
marketing and and just let you do your
job they need to trust you that you're
the right person to do it and they need
to trust that you're going to give in
the goals um and give them the outcomes
they need but a really good point you
made there I think one of the other
really important jobs you have as as a
marketing leader and this is something
that I
think you don't appreciate as much when
you're an individual contributor working
your way up to that leadership position
is that you're the face of marketing you
need to do internal marketing as well
exter as external market and what that
means is you need to be the person to
educate internally you need to be the
person to educate your CEO to educate
the like the rest of the senior
leadership team and educate the rest of
the company and that's one of your key
jobs in that role
yeah yeah yeah I like that I like that
because I I'm quite opposite I kind of
think we're probably quite aligned on
that thought process because at the end
of the day you yourself as a marketer
you have a choice if you're going to go
down the being employed route and not go
self-employed then you've got a choice
who you're work for right and if you're
kind of pissing and moaning that you're
working for a CO that doesn't get
marketing that's your own fault you
don't have to work for that company and
like you said if you're going to educate
them internally on look this is what I'm
we'll get into some of the nuts and
vaults in a bit but this is what I'm
proposing this is why we're going to do
it this is my hypothesis and what the
expected outcome is and this is some of
the tactics and strategies we're going
to use to bring it to fruition and
perhaps here's some examples of what
I've done in the past like if you're
bringing that you're showing them a
strategy and then you're kind of weaving
them into the process as well who
whoever else is involved then that's
that's on you that's what you should be
doing right yeah yeah and look at a
point where like you know if you have a
if you're working for someone who just
doesn't get it they're not going to
listen to then that becomes apparent but
yeah it's on you to be the person who
who kind of proves marketing and is the
the sort of mouthpiece and it the
champion for internally and that also
involves educating the company telling
about what it is marketing does um and
and how it provides value and that's it
is is it often a challenge when you join
a new company because often like
marketing depending on your goto Market
motion is one of the the later potential
um highest you know a lot of companies
will hire sales teams first for example
um and account manag CS teams because
they their customers so you're kind of
coming into a situation where now you've
got to educate the rest company on that
yeah yeah so perhaps you can give us an
example because you were the first
marketing hire for oneup sales right yes
so we had a marketing manager in place
but I'm sort of the first leader um to
actually repor to the C on behalf of
marketing and on the strategy and this
sort of thing got it got it so did you
have to do much in that on that front
yourself when it came to educating the
exact team in terms of what you were
planning yeah yeah so so thankfully um
the CEO here is has a has a good good
level of knowledge of of like marketing
himself has a good like social profile
and and and sort of like voice on
LinkedIn um and also it's very trusting
in terms of being able to say okay I've
hired you to do this position I expect
you to go out and do it like tell me
what you need tell me what the goals are
and I'll enable you to do that which is
great um however I definitely still need
to do a job of educating internally for
what marketing does so for example I'll
try to send out updates the entire
company every month about every every
kind of data point that we're
responsible for and how we're driving
that we do kind of quarterly meetups um
as a company our more company where each
member of the single each of team will
preserve back to the rest of the company
about what we've achieved and I'm
conscious of when I do that trying to
make sure that I present what marketing
has done in a way that kind of also
talks about the strategy that we execute
it's not just like hey here's a adult
results stump it's like hey here's how
we build awareness here's how we create
demand here's how we capture demand
here's how we convert it and I'm
constantly trying to educate as to this
is what marketing does and why as well
as just say here's here's some outcomes
we've driven nice nice so you pushed me
back on the first point rightly so that
we need to kind of align internally
before we look at external marketing
kind of attracting prospects that we
want to build awareness drive those
juicy inbound leads or demos with so let
Let's Pretend we've we've marketed it
internally we've got the leadership team
on board
what comes next when it comes to
prioritization yeah I mean I think
there's a lot of things and we'll kind
of I'll cover a few things now and I
would say you know some of these can
happen sort of in sync and
simultaneously you know nothing's
nothing's sort of exclusive um kind of
only can do one thing at a time but I
would say starting a new position um one
of the first things I would do is review
the state of play um so like what what's
currently been happening um and how's it
performing and then kind of kind of you
know document everything and decide what
you think needs to stop what you think
needs to start happening what needs to
continue and What needs to change so you
know what what needs to stop what what's
happening just isn't working and you
shouldn't be spending time or budget or
resources on what do you think is
something from your prior knowledge that
could work well and you're not doing and
you need to start so start to put the
the kind of motions in place for that
what's working well and you can continue
doing and what's what's what's working
or maybe should be working isn't working
that well and you need to change so
quickly identifying those things um and
mapping that out as a starting point um
is a great place to start I think any
Frameworks or kind of ways that you go
about doing that because I appreciate
that could probably cover quite a lot of
different channels be it digital be it
offline be in
person yeah definely so for me I would
look at it in terms of um the content
we're creating the channels and
campaigns are executing um as a as a
baseline um so that content we're
creating out there whether it's like
your Rand content your video your audio
then the campaigns we're doing whether
we're doing paid campaigns partner
campaigns all these kind of things um
like figuring out on a Case by case that
way um as a Baseline and it's possible
that particularly if going to a company
that hasn't had much marketing place
before there might not be a lot to Value
it anyway um yeah but as a starting
point um that that's where I start got
it in your experience is there any Prime
suspects that you often
where I know you've been involved in a
lot of SAS and tech companies in your
background is there usually any
contenders that are always like over
invested in or on on the other end like
often
neglected that's a good question I think
it definitely depends on your um yeah it
depends on your ICP and go to market
motions on what's going to work for you
one thing I would definitely say is it's
often one where you can very quickly um
identify whether things need to whe
things need to change or stop is your
paid campaigns um
because you know they should be
incredibly measurable they should
already connected up through to Pipeline
and revenue and if you're doing stuff on
page 30 you're doing stuff on LinkedIn
or wherever you should be able to
calculate that back very quickly so it's
it's an easy one to just look and
actually you know like we can stop
running these right away and save a
bunch of money while we rebuild them
because they're not working um and for
example that's one of the first things I
did here was just looking go okay let's
rebuild these campaigns and stuff what
we have got it yeah makes sense makes
sense so when you're putting this kind
of assessment of I guess almost an audit
of the current state of play what should
stop what's working well what can we
scale up what can we improve what can we
double down on is that something from
your experience typically you kind of
have to put together this assessment for
and then maybe get sign up from sign off
from leadership I.E where we can move
our budget from how we're going to
prioritize budget and I
imagine almost budget could be quite if
you are one of the first marketing hires
as
well yeah typically I guess it really
depends on the leadership and the
relationship you have with them um as I
said here what I've luckily been able to
do is have a lot of trust from the
leadership where I've in that scenario I
was just able to go there and go hey
here here's a bunch of things and I
could say hey you know I've already ped
these campaigns because they're they're
wasting us money we should be spending
money them and I've already done that
and this is what we're going to do
instead um so I think with these things
it's always a case of you want to give
the update on what's happening but also
why and then what's coming next and
what's planned to you know take over
something if you're going to stop it um
or why you're starting something and
what the goal is um so yeah it depends
on the COO but I I would always say in
this kind of scenario you want to move
pretty quickly because you you're
expected to get results
quickly yeah yeah makes sense so that
that's kind of the first step tactically
I'm guessing are there any kind of key
things that we should understand that
we're going to be of assessing and I
appreciate there's there's a bunch of
nuances here like you've touched on one
tactic which is paid campaigns and I'm
guessing that could be like Google paid
search Google ads it might be review
sites it might be otherwise depending on
like you say where your idle client
profile hangs out and how they actually
search or get trusted information when
they are in the market for a solution or
service like yours um are there any
other contenders like that that you tend
to then look at next once you've done I
guess the more quick winners be paid or
otherwise yeah 100% I think there's
another few steps I would take um so the
next one and again these don't have to
be sort of like you know one after the
other they can be asynchronous um but I
think one and and this is a huge one
which I think particularly if you're uh
as I said a firsttime leader a startup
you're likely going to have to make some
changes here and that's validating your
positioning investing right so really
understanding your ICP really
understanding their pain points how you
help them overcome a problem and what
your your product and solution is there
um getting that right is is absolutely
key because everything else you do is
not going to be that effective if your
positioning and you're messing the way
you talk to your buying your ICP isn't
on point like your paid campaigns your
content is all just going to be a little
bit flat and it's going to affect you
all the way down the funel um so valid
dating that before you kind of push
forward with anything else and kind of
building out new positioning messaging
if it's needed or just tweaking what you
have is is absolutely foundational I
think to to kind of any success
there from your experience you've worked
at a few tech companies do the companies
usually have this right before they
bring on board their first one or two
marketing hires or is it often something
you have to go back to the drawing board
with and say well you're actually
pushing features and benefits you
haven't actually taken the time to these
like super expensive problems that we're
fixing for for Idol client profile and
the impact of not fixing it and what
their alternatives
are it it can vary I think one thing
I've definitely seen throughout my
career and also previous com I work for
um also when I when I speak and sort of
like Mentor other other leaders is in
particularly if you we you're very early
stage startup and you know maybe a first
time CEO or something I think there's
like a fear of um what you would say
like niching down and being really
specific on your ICP really specific on
the pain points you address because
you're kind of you're fearful of
excluding the rest of like this huge
potential T you have and potentially
you've gone to a bunch of investors and
got investment on the promise that
you've got this this T of like hundreds
of thousands of millions of people so
you kind of like I don't want to be that
focused right because we might exclude
people who want to buy a product um but
I kind of think it's often like the from
marketing thing in particular it's the
opposite that's like the real value that
you want to do you want to be really
specific you want to speak to a really
specific segment with a really specific
problem and that's how you're going to
connect to them and that's how you're
going to bring people inbound in the
long term um so I think that's one of
the key things I've seen you know quite
a few times is just like not being
specific enough being too broad and by
sort of like by a result of that as a
result of that you're almost saying
nothing of value to anyone instead of
saying something really valuable to a
small pocket people yeah yeah yeah we we
did a enjoyable episode a while back
with a chap called pep Leah he runs a
company called winter so they do message
message testing for website sounds like
you've heard of him and he basically
shared with us how even if you're in a
super saturated market like the CRM
space or the Canada booking space or
whatever there is ways to win because
people have already companies have
already proven that the market has
demand but where you want to tap in if
you're going against Giants is by
basically picking a super small segment
of that market that has the problem you
fix is aware of the problem and the
impact of the problem and has cash to
invest but pick a super small segment
that's being underserved at the moment
so I think in in that episode we talked
about maybe going after construction
within booking pretending that that was
a second of demand and then slowly
chipping away it once you've picked out
that Niche and then slowly building up
the market exactly yeah it's going to be
way better for you to serve that like
Niche better than all the like Billion
Dollar General tools can and you be you
be the number one solution for them you
be really clear about that in your
marketing your messaging that that that
you're for them and then once you've got
that momentum you starting to build out
that Authority and like grow your
Revenue then you can start to build out
into like other sectors as well if
that's what that's what the your kind of
goal is um but as I said like a lot of
people are too fearful of that and you
end up being a very like nothing for
nobody sort of thing and that's really
hard place to grow in have you ever had
that push back from the exact team or
leadership I you come up with this idea
you say look guys for example our
website homepage headline is way too
broad you could literally screenshot
this next to 10 other homepages in our
space and you wouldn't be able to tell
the difference like we need to Niche
down to the exact sector we serve and
who specifically we help and have you
ever had any push back on that kind of
front um certainly not in my recent jobs
I've been I've been lucky with that
where people have been open to being
really spefic and it's one of the
changes we made when I join oneup and
it's and it's worked really well like
being way more specific in how we speak
to ICP I've been in I've been in
situations previously with really small
startups when I was early in my career
where it affected the product direction
as well we built a product that was way
too broad in too big a market when we
should have buil product that's a lot
more specific and then obviously
effective marketing as one than what we
could do um so I think it is always be a
problem um and it's just one that yeah
it's got to be addressed on with the SE
I think can are you able to give us an
example of what you changed on
oneup yeah yeah for sure so so I guess
um one of the key things and was that
when I joined oneup was a tool or oneup
is essentially a Performance Management
motivation reporting tool for sales and
recruitment teams um we plug in crms and
viip systems and and a bunch of other
systems um and enable people to
visualize their data much better to
build out targets um and competitions
and leaderboards for sales and
recruitment teams and to put all this
kind of information to to actually drive
performance um one of the things I
changed was that when talking interally
to the team our marketing was very
generally focused on sales and
Recruitment and probably more more
towards the sales side so we talked a
lot about like sales performance and
things like this but actually what I
found speak to our sales team was we had
a lot more success with recruitment we
speak to our customer success team we
had a lot more customers that in
recruitment so what I actually did was
was change our position mesing quite
drastically to really focus on recruit
as as a as a sector instead of broadly
trying to speak to any sales or
recruitment team or anything um so we
focus a lot of our content on
recruitment now we also Focus the
positioning and messaging of our website
on Recruitment and also build out a lot
of product specific and solution um
specific content by that vertical um so
again it speaks way more specifically to
to that that kind of vertical now um and
that has had a big impact on us being
able to convert a much higher rate and
to drive more pipeline than we were last
year got it and and the main kind of way
that you got that intel was that from
speaking to your Sal team did you say
yeah I it's it's evaluating our
customers um speaking to our sales team
and understanding what they have success
with and then once understanding so once
I kind of understood okay we should be
focusing a lot more on the recruitment
um specifically for our product as
opposed to being general for all sales
teams um what I did there was start to
really evaluate how recruiters used the
tool how they spoke about it um and how
that impacted our messaging how we
should begin talking about that for
Recruitment and that involved everything
from reviewing all of our you know G2
reviews to watching recordings of all
our sales calls and customer success
calls inding customers and things like
this and that kind of feeds back into
okay what's our messaging what should
our positioning be and the next step
after that After figuring out all that
kind of um positioning messing and doing
all the the the kind of Baseline work
there is beginning to ensure that
reflect on your website on your
campaigns and and these kind of things
got it appreciate you sharing so
slightly taking this to a more results
Focus we've covered a broad range so far
in your opinion what should what metric
should B2B marketers be measured
against I I do think ultimate is revenue
um it's definitely It's tricky to
measure about it when you have a mixed
goto Market kind of motion maybe your
sales LED and your outbound and inbound
it's definitely it's definitely
difficult to kind of separate those
things out but I think it is revenue
should be measured against um if you
kind of want to seat and have and to
have authority and impact at like the
level of the board then I think you need
to own a revenue number and you need to
kind of report on that and be and be
measured by that and be responsible for
that got it so if you're and feel free
to use examples of this company right
now or another with that in mind
how do you have those conversations and
how do you plan that of leadership like
you talked to us through your review and
audit process kind of what's working
what's not what do we need to cut what
do we need to ramp up where are our
quick wins um if you've been assigned a
revenue number how do you break that
down into something that's not scary as
anything and that's where you can think
like I to hit that I'm going to need to
do X going to need to do y that then
result in Zed like what's your breaking
that down proc to actually bring it to
frish in yeah I think that's a really
important skill to have as a leader and
as you kind of said you want it to not
seem scary and also I think you want it
to relate to something that's tangible
for your for your team and for the rest
of the company to understand right um so
I think the key thing there is you need
to understand a few specific metrics
that help you come up with something
tangible like let's say a demo Target um
on a monthly basis or a number of free
Trails you want to drive on a monthly
basis so the key thing there is to
understand um you're basically your
pipeline essentially so you have a
revenue Target which which has been
worked out hopefully with the CEO and
the VP of sales or cro and and you're
all kind of in agreement of of of who
owns what and what and why and that
Revenue Target based on historic numbers
for example um but in terms of
Translating that into something tangible
for your team what you need there is you
need firstly your your kind of average
contract value or your average revenue
per account um and that will give you
for example the number of uh the number
of like close one deals you need to
achieve that Revenue Target right
um then what you need is what I would do
typically is to map the revenue Target
out throughout the year on a
month-by-month basis with the CR VP of
sales and that kind of gives you your
your growth targets throughout the year
um and then once you do that with the
ACV and the a you can look at how many
deals you need to close each each month
to hit that Target and then you start to
work back from there like what your
qualified your SQL rate to your closed
one rate and that'll give you your
number of like sqls you need what's your
M sqr rate and that'll give you
potentially like the number of demos you
need request in your website um and then
you need to take into account your sales
cycle is it 30 days 60 days 90 days so
you're then offset your Target by that
and that theoretically that should be
able to sit there and give you okay we
need to get 30 demos for example in
January if we need to close x amount of
Revenue in March or April or whenever
good got it makes sense makes sense yeah
break it down into into tangibles from
demo trials to close one deals based on
the ACV and and how many uh deals you
need to win to get that number do you
leave much in the way of margins on that
side of things I.E if you worked out
perhaps it was I don't know 30 deals we
need to get done in Quarter Two do you
always add add a couple extra or add a
couple kind of in in the space of in
case something doesn't work out and that
kind of stuff
yeah like typically no what we do have
where we where I am now is we have like
sort of a Target we we shoot for and
then we also have a Target that's
slightly lower that we actually Ron the
company to um which is the kind of
Baseline um but then obviously in terms
of the team and in terms of what we set
our goals for we shoot for the bigger
Target and but we know we've got this
Baseline to run the business too so
that's the kind of as you said that's a
breathing room you're kind of talking
about
there got it what's your thoughts on
running marketing experiments and do you
run
them yeah 100% I think it's
um so I've said this a number of times
when I when I do share HKS on LinkedIn
is like it
depends so it it kind of depends on your
on your situation so so to give you an
example you know um if we look at
website experiments back when I was lead
feeder we used to run loads and with
huge success part of the reason for that
was because we had a really high volume
of traffic to our website and a high
volume of inbound free Trails which
meant we could run tests and get results
fairly quickly whereas when you're when
you're at a place where you're your your
whatever your traffic volumes or your
conversion volumes or these kind of
things are a lot smaller um you know to
guess the thisly significant result you
might be waiting months or years which
obviously isn't isn't feasible um so I
think in those sort scenarios you have
to sort of I think do a bit more
hypothesis and just make changes and and
and kind of see the results and and take
the actions you need rather and wait for
like a year for an AB test to to kind of
um to kind of give you results but I I
do think you know where you have the
means to do it it's yeah it's a
potential really big win and if you're
going into sort of a new company that
has you know a sizable pipeline already
um like good volumes of traffic to your
website these sorts of things then yeah
testing your homepage testing your
pricing page testing your you know your
demo page your free Tri seat like page
where you where you push people into
your funnel like those are potential
huge wins um so testing the design of
those testing the mesing is is is a is a
really big thing I'd focus on if I had
the needs to do it definitely got it
yeah are there any
um the the company you're at now are
they are they fairly new in terms of the
maturity in the
market no i' I'd say we're quite
established particularly in in the
recruitment sector um so we've been
around for for a good few years there um
it's definitely been more of an outbound
motion
up until until this point so it's try to
establish motion there which hasn't been
hugely in place before yeah got it
because I know lead feed are obviously
quite a large scale company and like you
said probably getting a ton of traffic
but I was curious if you've run any
experiments for this business perhaps
brought some new incentives on and if if
there's any examples maybe you could
share of ones that went excellent or
ones that went terribly and and any
learning yeah yeah definitely um I've
run a couple of a tests uh for example
um on our home B and things like that
but but the reality as I mentioned is
like getting the data is a very slow
process um one thing one thing I have
done is definitely testing the messaging
um for example I mentioned there that
that I focus a lot more on like a
specific vertical then being General um
and and testing that on the homepages
had initially sizable impact we need to
get more data but um but again it's one
of those things where if you can test
the messaging then it's great to do that
um prior to um prior to just making a
big change or as you kind of I know you
mentioned already that that tool called
winter and there's a possibility to be
use a toour like that as well instead of
just doing an AB test actually doing
some kind of survey as well gotcha Okay
cool so we touched on earlier we talked
about kind of making sure your
positioning and messaging is is tuned to
ICP the nich you want to served we
talked about the review and audit you
mentioned with paid campaigns you can
quite often get quick wins are there any
other when Market marketers that are
tuning in or Founders that want to drive
kind of marketing pipeline fairly quick
any other don't necessarily have to be
tactics or strategies or things that you
should look to put into play to drive
some pipeline to drive some decent leads
fairly
quickly yeah I think there's probably a
few things I think one other thing I
would say alongside what I kind of
mentioned was you know have you done
that positioning M I mentioned yeah
updating your website creating content
you know more bottom final content
whether it's for their product page a
Solutions page case studies utilizing
product tools for example if you don't
have a free trial I think things this
are really good so taking that
positioning messaging and essentially
putting into action is is one really key
one I think before you move on product
demos gated or
unated I would ungate it on a basis that
um you want maximum number of people to
to kind of view it right and with the
and with kind of the technology have
today you can you can identify a lot of
the companies that are viewing those
product demos anyway right um so so for
me I'd probably go with unated um be my
my take I'm I'm on the same camp just
wanted to hear hear your thoughts but no
carry on yeah yeah uh no no no worry wor
um so yeah said after you kind of in
addition to sorry like making sure
you've got your website and your
campaigns messaging correct the other
one I would do is is look at your lead
management process and fixing any holes
in that um and there's probably a lot of
little things you can do there um if you
analyze I think a lot of times what you
find is a small startup probably is
using a number of different systems to
to kind of collect leads and put them
into their CRM maybe they've got a
different CRM different marketing
automation system different tool to book
canar on the website whether it's chili
Piper or canly or whatever um and then
you've got a syn data through all those
systems you've got to qualify understand
what you're going to assign to sales
people what you don't assign
you got alignment across all these
systems and what I've often seen is
there'll be places where it drops off a
little bit and you'll lose a lead here
or there or maybe more than that and
it's a really easy one just to go in and
fix and make sure that system kind of
working as as well as it can do or it
could be as simple as as a case of you
don't use a calendar booking tool on
your website maybe you should you should
experiment with that because you know
your SLA means that you're not getting
back to lead to request a demo for like
several hours or a day or two and again
you're losing
um the the kind of opportunity to
qualify leads and get calend so really
addressing your lead management process
um if you not had a leader in place
before you probably got areas that can
really be improved
there interested to hear your thoughts
here but you you've touched on a lot of
the stuff but you're a B2B marketer
right so you're probably every now and
then in market for certain tools and
software and what what it may be if
you're going onto a potential vendor
site what is what are the things that
you quickly care about seeing learning
and understanding before you're ready to
book a demo or speak to sales or
whatever that cool to action is like
what do you need to see that's a really
good question um like I would say for my
perspective and this is one of the
reasons actually when I joined one one
of the things I said there was create
more bottom up final content so create a
lot more product content a lot more
solution content by vertical create more
case studies um add product tour the
reason I do that stuff is because when
like I'm buying and I'm going to a
website at that point I I already know
what I want and what I'm looking for and
I usually know what features and
functions I want so that's kind of what
I'm looking to understand I'm just
looking to have almost that validated
and go yeah this toen do I want to do
then I want to check the pricing and see
you know does this does this fit with my
budget if you know typically like a lot
of other people you have strict budget
if you're working for a small company um
and then I just want to be able to book
a demo or try the product as quickly as
possible and those are really the key
things I think yeah love it love it good
stuff um any other things I think you've
probably touched on a lot of them there
any other kind of quick wins be it
through the website that lead flow
system like you said makes makes perfect
sense I've seen the same things like
having lead capture forms or inquiry
forms that aren't actually working and
you don't know how long they haven't
been working for they're actually
sending maybe they're sending the leads
to email address that's not actually
monitored or some of them are going to
like info at others are going to sales
at others are going to some random rep
on your team um so having that system
where they're all singing off the same
him him sheet like you said using a tool
like Revenue hero or chili pipe or
whatever cendy or whatever it may be to
make sure they feed through to the the
right rep instantly yeah yeah um super
important any other like really funny
things like that you you've seen well
probably not funny for the companies
that happen to that probably lost a few
grand in
Revenue yeah probably not would say like
those are the kind of the key things on
on the website would say
um otherwise I say like the big thing I
focus on is then just taking all that
stuff you put in action and like
applying it to things like your content
strategy um so making sure you're
creating the right kind of content
whether it's blogs or podcasts or
whatever making sure they talk to your
IP um that that's probably the final the
final piece of the puzle I would say in
terms of in terms of taking action on
those initial kind of Foundations youve
you you built
got it got it anything that marketers
should consider as they're ramping
things up from your experience so
perhaps they've built the addition the
initial foundational layer maybe they've
got to a rate where they're driving a
steady flow of of leads that are decent
for their sales team that are closing at
the rate that they need them at but then
they want to take things up to the next
step Next Step get a bit more aggressive
any kind of usual things where you see
marketers slip up or things you should
be wary
of yeah I
think it's I think particularly I would
say one just thing in general and it
reply back to this point but just in
general for a small company to be aware
you usually have a small team like at
the moment it's me and me and one other
person um on my team and you have a
limited amount of resource and you're
often find that you're stretched in a
million directions and you know it's
easy to get thrown things and go hey
this company's doing this this company's
doing that should we be doing this
should be doing that and you and if you
do too many things you suddenly spread
yourself too thin again you're not doing
anything well I think one of the key
things to know as a small company is
particularly and typically if you're if
you're you know firsttime leader at a
company you're probably going into a
small startup that's beginning to scale
you can most likely scale to several
million in Revenue um easily meet the
goals you need for the next couple of
years based on just a couple of tactics
um so the key thing is not to spread
yourself to then find a tactic that you
can scale and then really kind of milk
that for all that's worth and I think if
you can do that well then that gives you
the means to kind of hit your Revenue
goals and gives you the space to work on
other stuff but if you kind try to take
on too much too quickly you'll find
yourself spr to thin and nothing is
going to work that
well like it do you have rules for how
you prioritize your time as a
marketer um I think I probably should
have titter rules um but I I definitely
try I mean what I try to do is to try to
for me personally at least try to get
things like all my meetings done in in
one or two days early in the week and
give myself the rest of the week to
focus on executing um to focus on a
specific amount of time maintaining and
optimizing what we currently do and then
focusing on what kind of new things or a
big kind of focus are for the upcoming
quarter and typically they'll will kind
of use something like o to to figure out
what to focus on a quarter by quarter
basis got it have you done much in the
way of hiring marketers building out
marketing team
Johnny yes yeah yeah so definitely uh
we'll start doing that where I am soon
um and previously Le we built quite a
large team so hide hi a lot of people
there what should what should marketing
leaders
consider when they're looking I guess if
they're in a position where it's just
them or maybe they've got one other
person on their team what should be the
main
things like where where should be that
Tipping Point where they first think
okay it's time to build out the team and
then what should they then be looking
for as that kind of early stage addition
to their
marketing that's a that's a good
question I think so so the way I would
do it is going back to that original
idea of find a tactic that you can scale
and milk it for as worth like the way
you firstly want to figure out if it's
going to work is you can bring an
external to help you transy scale
whether that's an agency uh whether it's
a freelancer or something like this um
and invest in it that way or invest
budget and something that way so it's
something that you know you can step
back on as a commitment it's not you're
not sort of committing an employee to it
but you can validate validate sort of
the tactic that way and then when you
find it reach a Tipping Point where you
think okay well you know what we're
going to get a lot more out of this if I
had someone internal with a specialism
or an expertise in this that can run
this themselves um makes L sense and
also we know we're going be able to
drive a lot more results here then
that's kind of the point where I think
okay I'm going to make a higher here um
so kind of utilizing more flexible
resources initially to validate
something and then when you kind know it
works and you can get more value out of
it and it makes more um of an investment
sense then hiring someone in to to kind
of take that over um is is what is what
I do got it and then when you are making
one of those first marketing hires would
you lean towards more of an allrounder
that can be a bit more scrappier and get
into B has a base level knowledge of
maybe several channels strategies
tactics Etc bit of a maybe they've got
experience in field marketing event
marketing paid maybe bit of SEO website
what whatever it may be or would you
lean towards someone that's super
specialist perhaps in the direction you
want to go yeah I I I think when you're
really small it needs to be somethingone
that's a bit more generalist um and then
as you start to build out a bigger team
and you start to like build out pods
maybe you got a pod for like content you
got a pod for like Performance Marketing
you've got product marketing that's
where like I would go okay we can hire a
specialist in here and we can start the
team when you've got like one or two
people you probably need more of a
generous maybe a demand generation
manager who has got an understanding of
like a number of tactics maybe they have
a specialism or one or two but they've
got a good understanding of um you know
a broad set of kind of tactics there um
would probably lean towards that and
what what I typically look for I think
is someone who understands your space
whatever your you're in in my case it's
it's B2B SS I'd want to hire someone who
understands B2B SS and then probably one
of the key things is
is hiring someone who's got the right
soft skills um in the sense that you
want someone who themselves is really
driven who is motivated by beating a
number or trying something new I think
that's almost more important when you're
small and Scrappy than hiring someone
who's got like a really like in like is
a let's just say Linked In PBC expert if
you hire someone who has got the self
skills that show you well even if
they're not quite there yet they're
going to push themselves and in six
months you know they're going to be be
an expert anyway um that's the kind of
personality I think works really well in
a in a kind of a startup
environment Legend Johny appreciate you
Shar your wisdom is there any resource
that has been super helpful to you or
that you recommend either Founders or
marketers that are looking to step up
there these game that you you been
helpful for you um I would
say like definitely if anything actually
I I um like I I I do some mentoring on
growth Mentor which is actually a good
platform um oh yeah and what I what I
find interesting is actually mentoring
other people and that actually helps you
a lot because hearing the problems from
a variety of other companies puts yours
in context um and also gives you a
different perspective on what you should
and shouldn't be prioritizing so
actually like talking to other marketers
as much as possible um is is one of I
think the best ways to to kind of push
yourself
forward completely agree that's
literally what I've done on this podcast
for the last I just gonna four years and
a few
months I don't really think there's any
quicker learning curve when you're when
you're asking folks or interacting with
folks that are kind of doing the stuff
you want to be doing and have perhaps
been to where you want to go and you're
talking to on a regular basis getting
that feedback sharing ideas
understanding what worked for them what
didn't what they learned like there's
there's no better feedback Lo but then I
suppose the most important thing is
actually not just consuming all the time
actually putting your learnings into
play that's the% that's the tricky part
which I'm guilty of myself talking about
stuff too much and then not getting on
with it but when you can start at least
chipping away a bit of what you know and
then learning what's going to work for
you what doesn't that's when the I think
get
fun 100% yeah and to say like yeah
speaking to others and actually learning
from their experiences um and if you can
find mentors if you can find people you
speak to regularly um just having other
marketing leaders maybe you catch up
with once a quarter or something just to
chat do what you're doing that that's
really helpful cool John I appreciate
you coming on the show thanks for
walking us through your strategies with
that please do tell us more about how
everyone tuning in can connect with you
learn more anything you want to plug
sure thing no I'm most regularly um on
Linkin so I'm I'm there I'm beginning to
create more content always been
struggling to push myself to do that
beginning to do a little more so feel
free to connect with me there um if you
want to chat like maybe you're
interested in any sort of discussion
around marketing or you're interested in
a session around specific parts of your
strategy tactic I'm on growth Mentor as
well so you can connect with me there
and we can chat about anything anything
you want as
well nice one sir I'll put those links
in the show notes below and with that I
want to thank you once
again cool thanks having me on it was a
pleasure yeah no worries and if you
enjoy today's episode and want to join
thousands of Legends enjoying peps or to
try out our weekday btb marketing email
tips head over to breaking
bb.com and with that we'll catch you on
the next one for more nobs actionable
tips to grow your B2B Pipeline and
revenue catch you soon
[Music]